We have no idea what Google does with Blogger blog posts. My guess is that they perform all sorts of actuarial analyses for insurance firms, terrorism screening for the Government, and, of course they track your consumerism though what you blog. Blogger blogs are perfect for providing relevant advertisements. Ad selections can be made based on posts, and posts are the reason why people visit a blog. Ergo, your ad exposure goes farther because of the similarity between the ads and the reason people go to your blog (the content - posts).

Wordpress is no better. You can host it on your own server (or VPS) and you can control the data. Wrong. All it takes is one bug Wordpress or one malicious plugin that usurps your freedom. Given the nature of the language it's written in - PHP - it is prone to bugs. PHP is one of the many unsafe dynamically typed languages, and it's also quite buggy itself. Many call it the worst language.

So why did I switch from Blogger to my own custom written blog? I am going to be writing some heinous stuff. Really, really controversial stuff that may shock the hell out of some people. I figure I can get a more engaged (and larger) reader base if I also make forays in the form of blog posts into the realm of politics and opinions about things non-computer science. For this, I need as much freedom as possible.

Writing the actual blog website gives me a choice in language. Most people would have chosen something dynamic like Python or Ruby, but I chose Haskell. Using Haskell, I can be  significantly more productive because I don't have to worry about the minutia of OO and I can write a type-safe, resilient, fast, and actually pretty dynamic backend. Additionally, I've found Haskell software to be significantly higher quality than the software of other languages.